Install your ASA C800 storage system using detailed steps Skip to main content Docs All NetApp NetApp Console Support Knowledge Base Training All docs ONTAP hardware systems Install and maintain The requested article is not available. Either it doesn't apply to this version of the product or the relevant information is organized differently in this version of the docs. You can search, browse, or go back to the other version. Install your ASA C800 storage system using detailed steps 07/27/2026 Contributors Suggest changes Create a GitHub issue Send us an email PDFs PDF of this doc site Collection of separate PDF docs Creating your file... This may take a few minutes. Thanks for your patience. Cancel Your file is ready OK This section gives detailed step-by-step instructions for installing an ASA C800 system. Step 1: Prepare for installation To install your ASA C800 system, you need to create an account and register the system. You also need to inventory the appropriate number and type of cables for your system and collect specific network information. You need to have access to the NetApp Hardware Universe (HWU) for information about site requirements as well as additional information on your configured system. You might also want to have access to the Release Notes for your version of ONTAP for more information about this system. What you need You need to provide the following at your site: Rack space for the storage system 4U in an HA configuration for the platform 2U for each NS224 storage shelf Phillips #2 screwdriver Additional networking cables to connect your system to your network switch and laptop or console with a Web browser Unpack the contents of all boxes. Record the system serial number from the controllers. Steps Set up your account: Log in to your existing account or create an account. Register (NetApp Product Registration) your system. Download and install NetApp Downloads: Config Advisor on your laptop. Inventory and make a note of the number and types of cables you received. The following table identifies the types of cables you might receive. If you receive a cable not listed in the table, see the NetApp Hardware Universe to locate the cable and identify its use. Connector type Part number and length Type of cable…​ For…​ 100 GbE cable X66211A-05 (112-00595), 0.5m X66211-1 (112-00573), 1m X66211-2 (112-00574), 2m X66211-5 (112-00576), 5m HA interconnect Cluster interconnect network Storage, Data 10 GbE cable X6566B-3-R6 (112-00300), 3m; X6566B-5-R6 (112-00301), 5m Data 25 GbE cable X66240A-2 (112-00598), 2m; X66240A-5 (112-00600), 5m Data RJ-45 (order dependent) Not applicable Management Fibre Channel X66250-2 (112-00342) 2m; X66250-5 (112-00344) 5m; X66250-15 (112-00346) 15m; X66250-30 (112-00347) 30m Network Micro-USB console cable Not applicable Console connection during software setup Power cables Not applicable Connecting the PSUs to power source Download and complete the Cluster Configuration Worksheet. Step 2: Install the hardware You need to install your system in a 4-post rack or NetApp system cabinet, as applicable. Steps Install the rail kits, as needed. Installing SuperRail into a four-post rack Install and secure your system using the instructions included with the rail kit. You need to be aware of the safety concerns associated with the weight of the system. Attach cable management devices (as shown). Place the bezel on the front of the system. Step 3: Cable controllers There is required cabling for your platform's cluster using the two-node switchless cluster method or the cluster interconnect network method. There is optional cabling to the Fibre Channel or iSCSI host networks or direct-attached storage. This cabling is not exclusive; you can have cable to a host network and storage. Required cabling: Cable controllers to a cluster Cable the controllers to a cluster by using the two-node switchless cluster method or by using the cluster interconnect network. Option 1: Cable a two-node switchless cluster Management network ports on the controllers are connected to switches. The HA interconnect and cluster interconnect ports are cabled on both controllers. Before you begin Contact your network administrator for information about connecting the system to the switches. Be sure to check the illustration arrow for the proper cable connector pull-tab orientation. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again. Steps Use the animation or the tabulated steps to complete the cabling between the controllers and the switches: Animation - Cable a two-node switchless cluster Step Perform on each controller module Cable the HA interconnect ports: e0b to e0b e1b to e1b Cable the cluster interconnect ports: e0a to e0a e1a to e1a Cable the management ports to the management network switches DO NOT plug in the power cords at this point. To perform optional cabling, see: Option 1: Cable to a Fibre Channel host network Option 2: Cable to a 10GbE host network Option 3: Cable the controllers to a single drive shelf Option 4: Cable the controllers to two drive shelves To complete setting up your system, see Step 4: Complete system setup and configuration. Option 2: Cable a switched cluster Cluster interconnect and management network ports on the controllers are connected to switches while the HA interconnect ports are cabled on both controllers. Before you begin Contact your network administrator for information about connecting the system to the switches. Be sure to check the illustration arrow for the proper cable connector pull-tab orientation. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again. Steps Use the animation or the tabulated steps to complete the cabling between the controllers and the switches: Animation - Cable a switched cluster Step Perform on each controller module Cable the HA interconnect ports: e0b to e0b e1b to e1b Cable the cluster interconnect ports to the 100 GbE cluster interconnect switches. e0a e1a Cable the management ports to the management network switches DO NOT plug in the power cords at this point. To perform optional cabling, see: Option 1: Cable to a Fibre Channel host network Option 2: Cable to a 10GbE host network Option 3: Cable the controllers to a single drive shelf Option 4: Cable the controllers to two drive shelves To complete setting up your system, see Step 4: Complete system setup and configuration. Optional cabling: Cable configuration-dependent options You have configuration-dependent optional cabling to the Fibre Channel or iSCSI host networks or direct-attached storage. This cabling is not exclusive; you can have cabling to a host network and storage. Option 1: Cable to a Fibre Channel host network Fibre Channel ports on the controllers are connected to Fibre Channel host network switches. Before you begin Contact your network administrator for information about connecting the system to the switches. Be sure to check the illustration arrow for the proper cable connector pull-tab orientation. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again. Step Perform on each controller module 1 Cable ports 2a through 2d to the FC host switches. 2 To perform other optional cabling, choose from: Option 3: Cable the controllers to a single drive shelf Option 4: Cable the controllers to two drive shelves 3 To complete setting up your system, see Step 4: Complete system setup and configuration. Option 2: Cable to a 10GbE host network 10GbE ports on the controllers are connected to 10GbE host network switches. Before you begin Contact your network administrator for information about connecting the system to the switches. Be sure to check the illustration arrow for the proper cable connector pull-tab orientation. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again. Step Perform on each controller module 1 Cable ports e4a through e4d to the 10GbE host network switches. 2 To perform other optional cabling, choose from: Option 3: Cable the controllers to a single drive shelf Option 4: Cable the controllers to two drive shelves 3 To complete setting up your system, see Step 4: Complete system setup and configuration. Option 3: Cable the controllers to a single drive shelf You must cable each controller to the NSM modules on the NS224 drive shelf. Before you begin Be sure to check the illustration arrow for the proper cable connector pull-tab orientation. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again. Use the animation or the tabulated steps to cable your controllers to a single shelf: Animation - Cable the controllers to a single drive shelf Step Perform on each controller module Cable controller A to the shelf: Cable controller B to the shelf: To complete setting up your system, see Step 4: Complete system setup and configuration. Option 4: Cable the controllers to two drive shelves You must cable each controller to the NSM modules on both NS224 drive shelves. Before you begin Be sure to check the illustration arrow for the proper cable connector pull-tab orientation. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again. Use the animation or the tabulated steps to cable your controllers to two drive shelves: Animation - Cable the controllers to two drive shelves Step Perform on each controller module Cable controller A to the shelves: Cable controller B to the shelves: To complete setting up your system, see Step 4: Complete system setup and configuration. Step 4: Complete system setup and configuration Complete the system setup and configuration using cluster discovery with only a connection to the switch and laptop, or by connecting directly to a controller in the system and then connecting to the management switch. Option 1: Complete system setup and configuration if network discovery is enabled If you have network discovery enabled on your laptop, you can complete system setup and configuration using automatic cluster discovery. Steps Plug the power cords into the controller power supplies, and then connect them to power sources on different circuits. The system begins to boot. Initial booting may take up to eight minutes. Make sure that your laptop has network discovery enabled. See your laptop's online help for more information. Use the animation to connect your laptop to the Management switch: Animation - Connect your laptop to the Management switch Select an ONTAP icon listed to discover: Open File Explorer. Click Network in the left pane and right-click and select refresh. Double-click either ONTAP icon and accept any certificates displayed on your screen. XXXXX is the system serial number for the target node. System Manager opens. Use System Manager guided setup to configure your system using the data you collected in the ONTAP Configuration Guide. Verify the health of your system by running Config Advisor. After you have completed the initial configuration, go to ONTAP 9 documentation for information about configuring additional features in ONTAP. Option 2: Complete system setup and configuration if network discovery is not enabled If network discovery is not enabled on your laptop, you must complete the configuration and setup using this task. Steps Cable and configure your laptop or console: Set the console port on the laptop or console to 115,200 baud with N-8-1. See your laptop or console's online help for how to configure the console port. Connect the console cable to the laptop or console, and connect the console port on the controller using the console cable that came with your system. Connect the laptop or console to the switch on the management subnet. Assign a TCP/IP address to the laptop or console, using one that is on the management subnet. Plug the power cords into the controller power supplies, and then connect them to power sources on different circuits. The system begins to boot. Initial booting may take up to eight minutes. Assign an initial node management IP address to one of the nodes. If the management network has DHCP…​ Then…​ Configured Record the IP address assigned to the new controllers. Not configured Open a console session using PuTTY, a terminal server, or the equivalent for your environment. Check your laptop or console's online help if you do not know how to configure PuTTY. Enter the management IP address when prompted by the script. Using System Manager on your laptop or console, configure your cluster: Point your browser to the node management IP address. The format for the address is https://x.x.x.x. Configure the system using the data you collected in the ONTAP Configuration Guide. Verify the health of your system by running Config Advisor. After you have completed the initial configuration, go to ONTAP 9 documentation for information about configuring additional features in ONTAP. On this page Terms of use Privacy policy Cookie policy Cookie settings Send feedback about this page