Install your ASA C250 storage system using detailed steps Skip to main content Docs All NetApp NetApp Console Support Knowledge Base Training All docs ONTAP hardware systems Install and maintain The requested article is not available. Either it doesn't apply to this version of the product or the relevant information is organized differently in this version of the docs. You can search, browse, or go back to the other version. Install your ASA C250 storage system using detailed steps 07/27/2026 Contributors Suggest changes Create a GitHub issue Send us an email PDFs PDF of this doc site Collection of separate PDF docs Creating your file... This may take a few minutes. Thanks for your patience. Cancel Your file is ready OK This section gives detailed step-by-step instructions for installing an ASA C250 system. Step 1: Prepare for installation To install your AFF A250 system, you need to create an account and register the system. You also need to inventory the appropriate number and type of cables for your system and collect specific network information. Customers with specific power requirements must check HWU for their configuration options. Before you begin Make sure you have access to the NetApp Hardware Universe (HWU) for information about site requirements. Make sure you have access to the Release Notes for your version of ONTAP for more information about this system. You need to provide the following at your site: Rack space for the storage system Phillips #2 screwdriver Additional networking cables to connect your system to your network switch and laptop or console with a Web browser Steps Unpack the contents of all boxes. Record the system serial number from the controllers. Set up your account: Log in to your existing account or create an account. Register your system. Download and install NetApp Downloads: Config Advisor on your laptop. Inventory and make a note of the number and types of cables you received. The following table identifies the types of cables you might receive. If you receive a cable not listed in the table, see the NetApp Hardware Universe to locate the cable and identify its use. Type of cable…​ Part number and length Connector type For…​ 25 GbE cable X66240A-05 (112-00595), 0.5m; X66240-2 (112-00573), 2m Cluster interconnect network X66240A-2 (112-00598), 2m; X66240A-5 (112-00600), 5m Data 100 GbE cable X66211-2 (112-00574), 2m; X66211-5 (112-00576), 5m Storage RJ-45 (order dependent) Not applicable Management network (BMC and wrench port) and Ethernet data (e0a and e0b) Fibre Channel X66250-2 (112-00342) 2m; X66250-5 (112-00344) 5m; X66250-15 (112-00346) 15m; X66250-30 (112-00347) 30m Micro-USB console cable Not applicable Console connection during software setup Power cables Not applicable Powering up the system Review the ONTAP Configuration Guide and collect the required information listed in that guide. Step 2: Install the hardware You need to install your system in a 4-post rack or NetApp system cabinet, as applicable. Steps Install the rail kits, as needed. Install and secure your system using the instructions included with the rail kit. You need to be aware of the safety concerns associated with the weight of the system. Identify and manage cables because this system does not have a cable management device. Place the bezel on the front of the system. Step 3: Cable controllers to cluster Cable the controllers to a cluster by using the two-node switchless cluster method or by using the cluster interconnect network method. Option 1: Two-node switchless cluster The management, Fibre Channel, and data or host network ports on the controller modules are connected to switches. The cluster interconnect ports are cabled on both controller modules. Before you begin Contact your network administrator for information about connecting the system to the switches. Be sure to check the illustration arrow for the proper cable connector pull-tab orientation. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again. About this task Use the animation or the tabulated steps to complete the cabling between the controllers and the switches. Perform the steps on each controller. Animation - Cable two-node switchless cluster Steps Use the the 25 GbE cluster interconnect cable to connect the cluster interconnect ports e0c to e0c and e0d to e0d. Cable the wrench ports to the management network switches with the RJ45 cables. DO NOT plug in the power cords at this point. Option 2: Switched cluster All ports on the controllers are connected to switches; cluster interconnect, management, Fibre Channel, and data or host network switches. Before you begin Contact your network administrator for information about connecting the system to the switches. Be sure to check the illustration arrow for the proper cable connector pull-tab orientation. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again. About this task Use the animation or the steps to complete the cabling between the controllers and the switches. Perform the steps on each controller. Animation - Cable switched cluster Steps Cable the cluster interconnect ports e0c and e0d to the 25 GbE cluster interconnect switches. Cable the wrench ports to the management network switches with the RJ45 cables. Step 4: Cable to host network or storage (Optional) You have configuration-dependent optional cabling to the Fibre Channel or iSCSI host networks or direct-attached storage. This cabling is not exclusive; you can have cabling to a host network and storage. NetApp Hardware Universe slot priority for host network cards (Fibre Channel or 25 GbE) is slot 2. However, if you have both cards, the Fibre Channel card goes in slot 2 and the 25 GbE card goes in slot 1 (as shown in the options below). If you have an external shelf, the storage card goes in slot 1, the only supported slot for shelves. Option 1: Cable to Fibre Channel host network Fibre Channel ports on the controllers are connected to Fibre Channel host network switches. Before you begin Contact your network administrator for information about connecting the system to the switches. Be sure to check the illustration arrow for the proper cable connector pull-tab orientation. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again.. About this task Perform the following step on each controller module. Steps Cable ports 2a through 2d to the FC host switches. Option 2: Cable to 25 GbE data or host network 25 GbE ports on the controllers are connected to 25 GbE data or host network switches. Before you begin Contact your network administrator for information about connecting the system to the switches. Be sure to check the illustration arrow for the proper cable connector pull-tab orientation. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again. About this task Perform the following step on each controller module. Steps Cable ports e4a through e4d to the 10GbE host network switches. Option 3: Cable controllers to single drive shelf Cable each controller to the NSM modules on the NS224 drive shelf. Before you begin Be sure to check the illustration arrow for the proper cable connector pull-tab orientation. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again. About this task Use the animation or the tabulated steps to complete the cabling between the controllers and the single shelf. Perform the steps on each controller module. Animation - Cable the controllers to a single NS224 Steps Cable controller A to the shelf. Cable controller B to the shelf. Step 5: Complete system setup Complete the system setup and configuration using cluster discovery with only a connection to the switch and laptop, or by connecting directly to a controller in the system and then connecting to the management switch. Option 1: If network discovery is enabled If you have network discovery enabled on your laptop, you can complete system setup and configuration using automatic cluster discovery. Steps Plug the power cords into the controller power supplies, and then connect them to power sources on different circuits. The system begins to boot. Initial booting may take up to eight minutes. Make sure that your laptop has network discovery enabled. See your laptop's online help for more information. Use the animation to connect your laptop to the Management switch: Animation - Connect your laptop to the Management switch Select an ONTAP icon listed to discover: Open File Explorer. Click Network in the left pane and right-click and select refresh. Double-click either ONTAP icon and accept any certificates displayed on your screen. XXXXX is the system serial number for the target node. System Manager opens. Use System Manager guided setup to configure your system using the data you collected in the ONTAP Configuration Guide. Verify the health of your system by running Config Advisor. After you have completed the initial configuration, go to ONTAP 9 documentation for information about configuring additional features in ONTAP. Option 2: If network discovery is not enabled If network discovery is not enabled on your laptop, you must complete the configuration and setup using this task. Steps Cable and configure your laptop or console: Set the console port on the laptop or console to 115,200 baud with N-8-1. See your laptop or console's online help for how to configure the console port. Connect the laptop or console to the switch on the management subnet. Assign a TCP/IP address to the laptop or console, using one that is on the management subnet. Plug the power cords into the controller power supplies, and then connect them to power sources on different circuits. The system begins to boot. Initial booting may take up to eight minutes. Assign an initial node management IP address to one of the nodes. If the management network has DHCP…​ Then…​ Configured Record the IP address assigned to the new controllers. Not configured Open a console session using PuTTY, a terminal server, or the equivalent for your environment. Check your laptop or console's online help if you do not know how to configure PuTTY. Enter the management IP address when prompted by the script. Using System Manager on your laptop or console, configure your cluster: Point your browser to the node management IP address. The format for the address is https://x.x.x.x. Configure the system using the data you collected in the ONTAP Configuration Guide. Verify the health of your system by running Config Advisor. After you have completed the initial configuration, go to ONTAP 9 documentation for information about configuring additional features in ONTAP. On this page Terms of use Privacy policy Cookie policy Cookie settings Send feedback about this page