Install your FAS8300 or FAS8700 system using detailed instructions Skip to main content Docs All NetApp NetApp Console Support Knowledge Base Training All docs ONTAP hardware systems Install and maintain The requested article is not available. Either it doesn't apply to this version of the product or the relevant information is organized differently in this version of the docs. You can search, browse, or go back to the other version. Install your FAS8300 or FAS8700 system using detailed instructions 08/10/2026 Contributors Suggest changes Create a GitHub issue Send us an email PDFs PDF of this doc site Collection of separate PDF docs Creating your file... This may take a few minutes. Thanks for your patience. Cancel Your file is ready OK These detailed, step-by-step instructions guide you through installing your FAS8300 or FAS8700 system, from racking and cabling to initial setup. Use these steps if you want more in-depth installation guidance than the quick steps provide. Step 1: Prepare for installation To install your system, you need to create an account, register the system, and get license keys. You also need to inventory the appropriate number and type of cables for your system and collect specific network information. You need to have access to the Hardware Universe for information about site requirements as well as additional information on your configured system. You might also want to have access to the Release Notes for your version of ONTAP for more information about this system. NetApp Hardware Universe Find the Release Notes for your version of ONTAP 9 You need to provide the following at your site: Rack space for the storage system Phillips #2 screwdriver Additional networking cables to connect your system to your network switch and laptop or console with a Web browser Steps Unpack the contents of all boxes. Record the system serial number from the controllers. Inventory and make a note of the number and types of cables you received. The following table identifies the types of cables you might receive. If you receive a cable not listed in the table, see the NetApp Hardware Universe to locate the cable and identify its use. Type of cable…​ Part number and length Connector type For…​ 100 GbE cable (QSF(28) X66211A-05 (112-00595), 0.5m X66211A-1 (112-00573), 1m X66211A-2 (112-00574), 2m X66211A-5 (112-00574), 5m Storage, cluster interconnect/HA, and Ethernet data (order-dependent) 25 GbE cable (SFP28s) X66240-2 (112-00598), 2m X66240-5 (112-00639), 5m GbE network connection (order-dependent) 32 Gb FC (SFP+ Op) X66250-2 (112-00342), 2m X66250-5 (112-00344), 5m X66250-15 (112-00346), 15m FC network connection Storage Cables X66030A (112-00435), .5m X66031A (112-00436), 1m X66032A (112-00437), 2m X66033A (112-00438), 3m mini-SAS HD to mini-SAS HD cables (order-dependent) Optical cables X66250-2-N-C (112-00342) 16 Gb FC or 25 GbE cables for mezzanine cards (order-dependent) RJ-45 (order dependent) X6585-R6 (112-00291), 3m X6562-R6 (112-00196), 5m Management network Micro-USB console cable Not applicable Console connection used during software setup if laptop or console does not support network discovery. Power cables Not applicable Powering up the system Review the NetApp ONTAP Configuration Guide and collect the required information listed in that guide. ONTAP Configuration Guide Step 2: Install the hardware You need to install your system in a 4-post rack or NetApp system cabinet, as applicable. Steps Install the rail kits, as needed. Install and secure your system using the instructions included with the rail kit. You need to be aware of the safety concerns associated with the weight of the system. Attach cable management devices (as shown). Place the bezel on the front of the system. Step 3: Cable controllers to your network You can cable the controllers to your network by using the two-node switchless cluster method or by using the cluster interconnect network. If the port labels on the card are not visible, check the card installation orientation (the PCIe connector socket is on the left side of the card slot in the A400 and FAS8300/8700), and then look for the card, by part number, in the NetApp Hardware Universe for a graphic of the bezel that shows the port labels. The card part number can be found using the sysconfig -a command or on the system packing list. Option 1: Cable a two-node switchless cluster The optional data ports, optional NIC cards, and management ports on the controller modules are connected to switches. The cluster interconnect and HA ports are cabled on both controller modules. You must have contacted your network administrator for information about connecting the system to the switches. Be sure to check the direction of the cable pull-tabs when inserting the cables in the ports. Cable pull-tabs are up for all onboard ports and down for expansion (NIC) cards. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again. Steps Use the animation or illustration to complete the cabling between the controllers and to the switches: Animation - Two-node switchless cluster cabling Go to Step 4: Cable controllers to drive shelves for drive shelf cabling instructions. Option 2: Cable a switched cluster The optional data ports, optional NIC cards, mezzanine cards, and management ports on the controller modules are connected to switches. The cluster interconnect and HA ports are cabled on to the cluster/HA switch. You must have contacted your network administrator for information about connecting the system to the switches. Be sure to check the direction of the cable pull-tabs when inserting the cables in the ports. Cable pull-tabs are up for all onboard ports and down for expansion (NIC) cards. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again. Steps Use the animation or illustration to complete the cabling between the controllers and to the switches: Animation - Switched cluster cabling Go to Step 4: Cable controllers to drive shelves for drive shelf cabling instructions. Step 4: Cable controllers to drive shelves Option 1: Cable the controllers to SAS drive shelves You must cable each controller to the IOM modules on both SAS drive shelves. Be sure to check the illustration arrow for the proper cable connector pull-tab orientation. The cable pull-tab for the DS224-C are down. As you insert the connector, you should feel it click into place; if you do not feel it click, remove it, turn it around and try again. Steps Use the following animation or illustration to cable your controllers to two drive shelves. Animation - Cable the controllers to SAS drive shelves Go to Step 5: Complete system setup and configuration to complete system setup and configuration. Step 5: Complete system setup and configuration You can complete the system setup and configuration using cluster discovery with only a connection to the switch and laptop, or by connecting directly to a controller in the system and then connecting to the management switch. Option 1: Completing system setup and configuration if network discovery is enabled If you have network discovery enabled on your laptop, you can complete system setup and configuration using automatic cluster discovery. Steps Use the following animation to set one or more drive shelf IDs: Animation - Set drive shelf IDs Plug the power cords into the controller power supplies, and then connect them to power sources on different circuits. Make sure that your laptop has network discovery enabled. See your laptop's online help for more information. Use the following animation to connect your laptop to the Management switch. Animation - Connect your laptop to the Management switch Select an ONTAP icon listed to discover: Open File Explorer. Select Network in the left pane, right-click Network, and then select Refresh. Double-click either ONTAP icon and accept any certificates displayed on your screen. In this example, XXXXX represents the system serial number for the target node. System Manager opens. Use System Manager guided setup to configure your system using the data you collected in the NetApp ONTAP Configuration Guide. ONTAP Configuration Guide Set up your account and download Active IQ Config Advisor: Log in to your existing account or create an account. NetApp Support Registration Register your system. NetApp Product Registration Download Active IQ Config Advisor. NetApp Downloads: Config Advisor Verify the health of your system by running Config Advisor. After you have completed the initial configuration, go to ONTAP 9 documentation for information about configuring additional features in ONTAP. Option 2: Completing system setup and configuration if network discovery is not enabled If network discovery is not enabled on your laptop, you must complete the configuration and setup using this task. Steps Cable and configure your laptop or console: Set the console port on the laptop or console to 115,200 baud with N-8-1. See your laptop or console's online help for how to configure the console port. Connect the console cable to the laptop or console using the console cable that came with your system, and then connect the laptop to the management switch on the management subnet . Assign a TCP/IP address to the laptop or console, using one that is on the management subnet. Use the following animation to set one or more drive shelf IDs: Animation - Set drive shelf IDs Plug the power cords into the controller power supplies, and then connect them to power sources on different circuits. FAS8300 and FAS8700 shown. Animation - Power on the controllers Initial booting might take up to eight minutes. Assign an initial node management IP address to one of the nodes. If the management network has DHCP…​ Then…​ Configured Record the IP address assigned to the new controllers. Not configured Open a console session using PuTTY, a terminal server, or the equivalent for your environment. Check your laptop or console's online help if you do not know how to configure PuTTY. Enter the management IP address when prompted by the script. Using System Manager on your laptop or console, configure your cluster: Point your browser to the node management IP address. The format for the address is https://x.x.x.x. Configure the system using the data you collected in the NetApp ONTAP Configuration guide. ONTAP Configuration Guide Set up your account and download Active IQ Config Advisor: Log in to your existing account or create an account. NetApp Support Registration Register your system. NetApp Product Registration Download Active IQ Config Advisor. NetApp Downloads: Config Advisor Verify the health of your system by running Config Advisor. After you have completed the initial configuration, go to ONTAP 9 documentation for information about configuring additional features in ONTAP. On this page Terms of use Privacy policy Cookie policy Cookie settings Send feedback about this page