Cable an NS224 shelf to your AFF A900 system Skip to main content Docs All NetApp NetApp Console Support Knowledge Base Training All docs ONTAP hardware systems Install and maintain The requested article is not available. Either it doesn't apply to this version of the product or the relevant information is organized differently in this version of the docs. You can search, browse, or go back to the other version. Cable an NS224 shelf to your AFF A900 system 05/13/2026 Contributors Suggest changes Create a GitHub issue Send us an email PDFs PDF of this doc site Collection of separate PDF docs Creating your file... This may take a few minutes. Thanks for your patience. Cancel Your file is ready OK Cable your NS224 shelf to your AFF A900 system so that each shelf has two connections to each controller in the HA pair. About this task This procedure assumes that your HA pair has at least one existing NS224 shelf and that you are hot-adding up to three additional shelves. If your HA pair has only one existing NS224 shelf, this procedure assumes that the shelf is cabled across two RoCE-capable 100GbE I/O modules on each controller. Steps If the NS224 shelf you are hot-adding will be the second NS224 shelf in the HA pair, complete the following substeps. Otherwise, go to the next step. Cable shelf NSM A port e0a to controller A slot 10 port a (e10a). Cable shelf NSM A port e0b to controller B slot 2 port b (e2b). Cable shelf NSM B port e0a to controller B slot 10 port a (e10a). Cable shelf NSM B port e0b to controller A slot 2 port b (e2b). The following illustration shows the second shelf cabling (and the first shelf). If the NS224 shelf you are hot-adding will be the third NS224 shelf in the HA pair, complete the following substeps. Otherwise, go to the next step. Cable shelf NSM A port e0a to controller A slot 1 port a (e1a). Cable shelf NSM A port e0b to controller B slot 11 port b (e11b). Cable shelf NSM B port e0a to controller B slot 1 port a (e1a). Cable shelf NSM B port e0b to controller A slot 11 port b (e11b). The following illustration shows the third shelf cabling. If the NS224 shelf you are hot-adding will be the fourth NS224 shelf in the HA pair, complete the following substeps. Otherwise, go to the next step. Cable shelf NSM A port e0a to controller A slot 11 port a (e11a). Cable shelf NSM A port e0b to controller B slot 1 port b (e1b). Cable shelf NSM B port e0a to controller B slot 11 port a (e11a). Cable shelf NSM B port e0b to controller A slot 1 port b (e1b). The following illustration shows the fourth shelf cabling. Verify that the hot-added shelf is cabled correctly using Active IQ Config Advisor. If any cabling errors are generated, follow the corrective actions provided. What's next If you disabled automatic drive assignment as part of the preparation for this procedure, you need to manually assign drive ownership and then reenable automatic drive assignment, if needed. Go to Complete the hot-add. Otherwise, you are done with the hot-add shelf procedure. On this page Terms of use Privacy policy Cookie policy Cookie settings Send feedback about this page