Cable an NS224 shelf to your AFF A1K system Skip to main content Docs All NetApp NetApp Console Support Knowledge Base Training All docs ONTAP hardware systems Install and maintain The requested article is not available. Either it doesn't apply to this version of the product or the relevant information is organized differently in this version of the docs. You can search, browse, or go back to the other version. Cable an NS224 shelf to your AFF A1K system 05/13/2026 Contributors Suggest changes Create a GitHub issue Send us an email PDFs PDF of this doc site Collection of separate PDF docs Creating your file... This may take a few minutes. Thanks for your patience. Cancel Your file is ready OK Cable your NS224 shelf to your AFF A1K system so that each shelf has two connections to each controller in the HA pair. You can hot-add up to three additional NS224 shelves (for a total of four shelves) to an AFF A1K HA pair. About this task This procedure assumes that your HA pair has at least one existing NS224 shelf. This procedure addresses the following hot-add scenarios: Hot-adding a second shelf to an HA pair with two RoCE-capable I/O modules in each controller. (You have installed a second I/O module and recabled the first shelf to both I/O modules or already had the first shelf cabled to two I/O modules. You will cable the second shelf to both I/O modules). Hot-adding a third shelf to an HA pair with three RoCE-capable I/O modules in each controller. (You have installed a third I/O module and will cable the third shelf to only the third I/O module). Hot-adding a third shelf to an HA pair with four RoCE-capable I/O modules in each controller. (You have installed a third and fourth I/O module and will cable the third shelf to the third and fourth I/O modules). Hot-adding a fourth shelf to an HA pair with four RoCE-capable I/O modules in each controller. (You have installed a fourth I/O module and recabled the third shelf to the third and fourth I/O modules or already had the third shelf cabled to the third and fourth I/O modules. You will cable the fourth shelf to both the third and fourth I/O module). Steps If the NS224 shelf you are hot-adding will be the second NS224 shelf in the HA pair, complete the following substeps. Otherwise, go to the next step. Cable shelf NSM A port e0a to controller A slot 10 port a (e10a). Cable shelf NSM A port e0b to controller B slot 11 port b (e11b). Cable shelf NSM B port e0a to controller B slot 10 port a (e10a). Cable shelf NSM B port e0b to controller A slot 11 port b (e11b). The following illustration highlights the cabling for the second shelf in the HA pair with two RoCE-capable I/O modules in each controller: If the NS224 shelf you are hot-adding will be the third NS224 shelf in the HA pair with three RoCE-capable I/O modules in each controller, complete the following substeps. Otherwise, go to the next step. Cable shelf NSM A port e0a to controller A slot 9 port a (e9a). Cable shelf NSM A port e0b to controller B slot 9 port b (e9b). Cable shelf NSM B port e0a to controller B slot 9 port a (e9a). Cable shelf NSM B port e0b to controller A slot 9 port b (e9b). The following illustration highlights the cabling for the third shelf in the HA pair with three RoCE-capable I/O modules in each controller: If the NS224 shelf you are hot-adding will be the third NS224 shelf in the HA pair with four RoCE-capable I/O modules in each controller, complete the following substeps. Otherwise, go to the next step. Cable shelf NSM A port e0a to controller A slot 9 port a (e9a). Cable shelf NSM A port e0b to controller B slot 8 port b (e8b). Cable shelf NSM B port e0a to controller B slot 9 port a (e9a). Cable shelf NSM B port e0b to controller A slot 8 port b (e8b). The following illustration highlights the cabling for the third shelf in the HA pair with four RoCE-capable I/O modules in each controller: If the NS224 shelf you are hot-adding will be the fourth NS224 shelf in the HA pair with four RoCE-capable I/O modules in each controller, complete the following substeps. Cable shelf NSM A port e0a to controller A slot 8 port a (e8a). Cable shelf NSM A port e0b to controller B slot 9 port b (e9b). Cable shelf NSM B port e0a to controller B slot 8 port a (e8a). Cable shelf NSM B port e0b to controller A slot 9 port b (e9b). The following illustration highlights the cabling for the fourth shelf in the HA pair with four RoCE-capable I/O modules in each controller: Verify that the hot-added shelf is cabled correctly using Active IQ Config Advisor. If any cabling errors are generated, follow the corrective actions provided. What's next If you disabled automatic drive assignment as part of the preparation for this procedure, you need to manually assign drive ownership and then reenable automatic drive assignment, if needed. Go to Complete the hot-add. Otherwise, you are done with the hot-add shelf procedure. On this page Terms of use Privacy policy Cookie policy Cookie settings Send feedback about this page