Cable an NS224 shelf to your AFF A400 or AFF C400 system Skip to main content Docs All NetApp NetApp Console Support Knowledge Base Training All docs ONTAP hardware systems Install and maintain The requested article is not available. Either it doesn't apply to this version of the product or the relevant information is organized differently in this version of the docs. You can search, browse, or go back to the other version. Cable an NS224 shelf to your AFF A400 or AFF C400 system 05/13/2026 Contributors Suggest changes Create a GitHub issue Send us an email PDFs PDF of this doc site Collection of separate PDF docs Creating your file... This may take a few minutes. Thanks for your patience. Cancel Your file is ready OK Cable your NS224 shelf to your AFF A400 or AFF C400 system so that each shelf has two connections to each controller in the HA pair. Cable shelf to an A400 HA pair For an A400 HA pair, you can hot-add up to two shelves and use onboard ports e0c/e0d and ports in slot 5 as needed. Steps If you are hot-adding one shelf using one set of RoCE-capable ports (onboard RoCE-capable ports) on each controller, and this is the only NS224 shelf in your HA pair, complete the following substeps. Otherwise, go to the next step. Cable shelf NSM A port e0a to controller A port e0c. Cable shelf NSM A port e0b to controller B port e0d. Cable shelf NSM B port e0a to controller B port e0c. Cable shelf NSM B port e0b to controller A port e0d. The following illustration shows cabling for one hot-added shelf using one set of RoCE-capable ports on each controller: If you are hot-adding one or two shelves using two sets of RoCE-capable ports (on board and PCIe card RoCE-capable ports) on each controller, complete the following substeps. Shelves Cabling Shelf 1 Cable NSM A port e0a to controller A port e0c. Cable NSM A port e0b to controller B slot 5 port 2 (e5b). Cable NSM B port e0a to controller B port e0c. Cable NSM B port e0b to controller A slot 5 port 2 (e5b). If you are hot-adding a second shelf, complete the “Shelf 2” substeps; otherwise, go to the next step. Shelf 2 Cable NSM A port e0a to controller A slot 5 port 1 (e5a). Cable NSM A port e0b to controller B port e0d. Cable NSM B port e0a to controller B slot 5 port 1 (e5a). Cable NSM B port e0b to controller A port e0d. Go to the next step. The following illustration shows cabling for two hot-added shelves: Verify that the hot-added shelf is cabled correctly using Active IQ Config Advisor. If any cabling errors are generated, follow the corrective actions provided. Cable shelf to a C400 HA pair For a C400 HA pair, you can hot-add up to two shelves and use ports in slot 4 and 5 as needed. Steps If you are hot-adding one shelf using one set of RoCE-capable ports on each controller, and this is the only NS224 shelf in your HA pair, complete the following substeps. Otherwise, go to the next step. Cable shelf NSM A port e0a to controller A slot 4 port 1 (e4a). Cable shelf NSM A port e0b to controller B slot 4 port 2 (e4b). Cable shelf NSM B port e0a to controller B slot 4 port 1 (e4a). Cable shelf NSM B port e0b to controller A slot 4 port 2 (e4b). The following illustration shows cabling for one hot-added shelf using one set of RoCE-capable ports on each controller: If you are hot-adding one or two shelves using two sets of RoCE-capable ports on each controller, complete the following substeps. Shelves Cabling Shelf 1 Cable NSM A port e0a to controller A slot 4 port 1 (e4a). Cable NSM A port e0b to controller B slot 5 port 2 (e5b). Cable NSM B port e0a to controller B port slot 4 port 1 (e4a). Cable NSM B port e0b to controller A slot 5 port 2 (e5b). If you are hot-adding a second shelf, complete the “Shelf 2” substeps; otherwise, go to the next step. Shelf 2 Cable NSM A port e0a to controller A slot 5 port 1 (e5a). Cable NSM A port e0b to controller B slot 4 port 2 (e4b). Cable NSM B port e0a to controller B slot 5 port 1 (e5a). Cable NSM B port e0b to controller A slot 4 port 2 (e4b). Go to the next step. The following illustration shows cabling for two hot-added shelves: Verify that the hot-added shelf is cabled correctly using Active IQ Config Advisor. If any cabling errors are generated, follow the corrective actions provided. What's next If you disabled automatic drive assignment as part of the preparation for this procedure, you need to manually assign drive ownership and then reenable automatic drive assignment, if needed. Go to Complete the hot-add. Otherwise, you are done with the hot-add shelf procedure. On this page Terms of use Privacy policy Cookie policy Cookie settings Send feedback about this page